critique I have a big and awesome
channels is that they're just not very
nice yeah you go on the internet people
are gonna be rude to that's fine like
whatever but does that now mean you
should contribute to that I don't like
to spend my time vidhan and watching
quenette's top like this actually
educational and meaningful and the way
sounds like really pompous and academic
here but you know I do like to spend my
time doing I want a meaningful staff and
I just felt that trolling through not
trolling through trolling trolling
through like words of drama videos & M
league but you noted and basically
collecting the evidence to make my own
drama videos it was not after dr. Hewson
Martine so that's kind of why one is
Italy and also it just didn't feel right
it didn't feel like I was doing a good
thing when also that I just didn't feel
there was an I was being a nice person
and I was being fake I was being a fake
vegan not a fake vegan but I was just
been a fake version of warden and know
that I've states away from that it feels
like a whole lot bear it's just not that
makes like why are we why are we getting
into people's business you know I don't
think the excuse that like it's just a
business I'm just building a business I
don't care about being nice I'm building
a business what kind of excuse is that
right like oh I just run a
slaughterhouse it's a business okay and
then idleness art comes on and they're
talking about this no no vegan cheer
just kept ringing you up well this is a
business this is a business um you know
I don't care about principle this is a
business okay so I don't care about
principle this is a business I'm gonna
run my slaughterhouse whether or not you
like it right nice people don't talk
[ __ ] nice people don't gossip and nice
people especially don't do that on a
public platform and I felt like have is
devoting all my time to theirs in JAMA
which was really what about people's
life's whatever it feels late and one of
it people sex slaves and what about
scandals in people's lives than actually
doing something positive for veganism or
not just for veganism but just anything
positive in my own life
or help other people the shallowness
stupidity and hostility of what people
have been doing here on YouTube here in
the digital vegan activist seen it has
impact on what gets said and what
doesn't get said it has a chilling
effect on our political discourse and it
certainly impacts some people more than
others i saw a statement recently from a
young asian woman who's been here on
youtube for years talking about veganism
talking about her own life some extent
but ninety percent of her videos of her
veganism and she just admitted at one
point that she often felt afraid about
coming on camera because she felt her
face was too puffy you know she's never
been fat and the time she's been if
she's never even been overweight or
anything um but you know I know what
she's talking about she's the type of
person who has a you know sort of face
where you know if you didn't see her
body you might assume she had more
weight on that she does she has a
somewhat puffy face and she said openly
she felt intimidated she felt that she
couldn't come on camera and represent
veganism if she didn't look thin um you
know she'd never cheekbones showing
through her face or what have you she
didn't have a certain kind of
hollow-cheeked look because that's what
vegans are supposed to be or that other
vegans would have reject her or say
she's not a real vegan activist or not a
good representative the veganism and a
kind of shallowness is painful and it's
primitive very simple sense it it
prohibits people from getting involved
sharing their voice sharing their
perspective or ultimately in organizing
real activism I mentioned recently in
one of my podcasts actually was an
interview with with another broadcaster
here an example of some with many many
years of experience in organizing real
world vegan actors and she has some some
web presence to call Doris Lynn it's so
many I mean there's so many examples of
people who are vegans off youtube
and you know we can't get them to come
on YouTube and right now it's it's not
hard to imagine why they're all kinds of
reasons not everyone's confidence become
camera some people have a stutter or a
lisp they can't speak well some people
just feel ugly and they feel this is a
game that's only played by beautiful
people um the shallowness the cattiness
the cruelty of what goes on you know for
so little reason with so little benefit
intentions matter you know even if you
talk about a whole bunch of people
who've accomplished nothing or next to
nothing in terms of political activism
there's a difference between someone who
has a sincere intention of shall we say
saving the planet of pursuing really
illogical activism real political
activism and someone who tells you
openly that they're just here to make
money they're just here to earn a dollar
out of a scandal in the short term that
they're just trying to pursue fame or
notoriety that's a very different thing
it's always seen to me a you know a
striking example of all these issues but
you know ultimately the issue of
intention you know one of my few friends
and colleagues here online is Jason
passinho if you made a Venn diagram of
all the different values and directions
of what's going on here in in veganism
2015 2016 these last few years one of
the things I'm still known for famous
for famous on a small small scale I you
know that is this phrase permanent
vacation I was I'm certainly not the
first person who's that phrase new
English language but within veganism
within the discourse we've got going
here on YouTube I invented or I you know
I coined the phrase in this usage where
I was really questioning a lot of the
content putting people were putting
online that glamorized the sort of
reckless irresponsible lifestyle and
that tried to present that the
glorification that lifestyle has
activism as the most effective
form of activism etc etc so I kicked off
the the critique of the permanent
vacation you know Jason Posey know
anyone who just casually looks at what's
on his channel and looks at what is on
my channel you might assume we were
bitter enemies you might assume we're at
opposite ends of the political spectrum
of what's going on here within veganism
he is the only guy who has tried to
organize an event a real world event a
political activist thing that exists if
you happy with me it's the only one um
I'm a I'm a nail get have some more
people to add to that list because I've
been promoting this idea of the
illustrated children's book up and I've
been inviting people to get involved
that but I think right now I think Jason
is the only guy who gets that gets that
award you no intentions matter
intentions tell me something but who you
are as a character and they predict your
future behavior even if you haven't
accomplished eating those goals yet even
if you haven't realized those intentions
I think it's true I think if you look at
what Jason is doing with his life right
now Jason passinho is on permanent
vacation and I've seen him make some
sarcastic remarks about that so that's a
guy's self-critical joking remark so
want to say sardonic remarks the
difference between sarcastic and
sardonic people but you know I know that
he has intentions that are really
positive they're really trying to make a
positive difference the world and it may
take him years to really pursue those
intentions or he may never do it you
know I don't know I always say this is
the number one reason why most of us
don't accomplish your goals and activism
his employment myself recently applied
for a job and if I get that job it'll
change my whole outlook on the next
several years in terms of what I can and
can't do and and so on take on economic
responsibilities my case I have family
responsibilities so on and so forth but
it is interesting I mean the first steps
of moving beyond the facade of what
people publicly portray about themselves
in internet often is learning about
their aspirations their intentions
the goals they're pursuing and those
often can be a surprising contrast to
you know the glittering images of them
swimming in a bikini or you know
chopping up vegetables or whatever it is
whatever little aspect of their life it
is they they choose to share on YouTube
but what I've discovered by being so
blunt and forthright about my own
political aspirations that there are a
great many people here who really do
want to make the world a better place
whether or not they feel they can
whether or not they have frankly the
time to even entertain those forms of
activism there are people with sincere
concern who really want to engage in the
boring and detailed meditations that are
on this channel about questions of
method and and politics and effective
activism and you really want to look
ahead to the next ten years to do
something much more meaningful than just
engaging gossip or just pursue Fame
notoriety etc and it's a damn shame the
chilling effect of the currently you
know prevalent mood of caddy vicious you
know mutual denunciation and defamation
slander as a sport of what goes on these
days it silences people it results of
people deleting their YouTube channels
who already had them it's a barrier to
people of respectable jobs in need to
maintain the respectability for against
them getting involved and for me it also
brings me to question what I'm doing and
how I'm doing it and I really feel that
I I need to stick to my original mission
statement and mandate here on YouTube
stick to what's crucially important to
me and why I come on camera in the first
place which is in part to connect with
the minority of other vegans who really
want to build something positive for the
future and it's important here for my
daughter discover one day I'm divorced
but I have a daughter
who I karabell to think about a great
deal and so on and it's tremendously
important to me that I come on camera
and speak really honestly about what's
going on in my life what really matters
to me partly just to share with her and
partly for me to share it with my
friends and I mean friends in a double
sense ear people who really are my
friends and people who I haven't even
met yet but who in future may become my
friend one day somebody could discover
this video five years from now who
becomes my best friend six years from
now that's what you're laying the
groundwork for by really really really
keeping it real now all these things
come to matters principal nobody can be
responsible for the emotional impact
that words have on me whether those
words are shared with malice or are
shared I don't know in some other spirit
of uh of scandal mongering man had to
ask you to have a question recently
because another youtuber who I will not
name because he's asked me not to name
him although he makes his money by
defaming me um another youtuber made
some comments that that really heard me
about my own education about what I'm
doing University of all what's been
going on with my university and you know
I had to reflect this hurts me partly
because it puts pressure on me to come
on camera now and talk about why this
matters to me what is going on in my
education you know what I'm doing
University what motivates me to be
university the good and the bad the
nature of the struggle have had at the
University of Victoria and again that
matters to me so much it's something
that's real a meaningful in itself it's
something I want to leave an honest
account up for my daughter it's
something I would want to share with a
friend past present or future friendship
um and here's someone else you know take
some of that in my life and again it's
something much less personal than my
divorce or my sex life or you know the
other things that people have you know
without any sense of shame jump to the
chance to denounce me about the fey me
about driving into the mud um but I mean
the question of what's going on
education it's something so meaningful
to me it's like that matters to me and
it's something I do want to share with
my audience but then when you deal with
that hostility with you deal with that
kind of mean spirit of reaction from
your other youtubers or from some
portion of the vegan YouTube audience
then you kind of face a crossroad what's
like well am I going to try to present a
sort of sanitized demeanor am I going to
become less of a honest first person
perspective on youtube and become more
like a news reader who just presents
facts and opinions or am I going to take
this as an opportunity to bring
something really raw really real and
really honest the internet and you know
it's with no hesitation but it is with
real sorrow that I feel I have to take
that second path every time that's none
of this should be worth doing if what I
was presenting was phony in any way and
I'd hate to watch these videos myself
five years from now 10 years to look
back on it and be watching wincing
because I knew the things I was leaving
out the things I was misrepresenting
after wasn't really like that you know
what I want is the exact opposite is to
bring
yeah I said this a long time ago in such
a different context here on YouTube you
know here on YouTube honesty is the only
currency we've got there are no special
effects there's no plot the no plot
twist they're really there's no drama
people trying to make money out of drama
there is no Trump and you know I I don't
know how many people are even going to
come along for that ride if I make a
video that's just talking about my
struggles the university now not by my
name's yesterday 2016 what you know
what's going on one percent the
university now and what motivates me but
I mean you know that's exactly what I
want to share with you and the same
sense that I was surprised when I really
figured out who Jason piscina was in
contrast to the endless holiday footage
of him you know swimming at one beach
after another and so on eros oh wow this
is a guy who really has intentions and
aspirations you know but beyond Allah
okay hmm and again he's the one guy who
really got serious and wanted to to make
an event happen the real to me very
memorable thing about him who he is what
he wants them um I'd also like to thank
the people who support me the people who
had future may really be involved in
real world political activism with me
and so on I think that it's meaningful
for them to learn and understand who I
am and what motivates me why I was in
that universe in the first place what my
educational goals are he said such as
who i am but who I'm trying to become
those questions of motivation I don't
know um I can share that because in a
sense it's the only thing I've got to
share is what's really going on in my
life what's really meaningful to me what
really matters to me and another sense
you know whether it's someone who's
involved at the low level of deciding to
donate five dollars to support the
publication of that illustrated
children's book or someone who's
involved at a much higher
vil of me be you know buying a bus
ticket to come to some event we might
organize in southern Ontario in the year
2017 Oh long bus trips in Canada to
attend a political event flow it's in
the middle of winter hard to justify um
you know I'd like to think that they can
they can take from that a sort of
confidence that they know who I really
am and meanwhile there were people who
are literally trying to earn a living by
selling you lies and answer to that same
question by elaborating a mythology all
around me of who I am and what my life's
about just just a whole lot of nonsense
one great thing about I Zelda I think he
probably is one of the best people
sending the message veganism online
because he doesn't sugarcoat it he isn't
like hey look his bowl of fruit you know
this is great hope you guys needed no I
doesn't care about that he's not non
apologist it is what it is you you you
get what you want to get and that is
some guy who right now it's basically
saying listen I think you said in the
video if you're not trying too hard
enough [ __ ] you you know try harder you
know this is important I don't I don't
want someone's going to do it [ __ ]
half-ass you know its energy best isn't
good enough then maybe we can talk for a
little bit but it's probably not going
to work out in the long run